How does monitoring empower you?; It allows you to catch complications before they develop into problems, and helps you preserve high availability and deliver high quality of service.
What does monitoring mean in the context of web applications?; Becoming aware of the state of the system
What is monitoring?; The process of maintaining surveillance over the existence and magnitude of state change and data flow in a system.
What are the aims of monitoring?; Monitoring aims to identify faults and assist in their subsequent elimination
What are the techniques used in monitoring?; Real-time processing, statistics, and data analysis
What is alerting?; The capability of a monitoring system to detect and notify the operators about meaningful events that denote a grave change of state.
Why is it important to establish performance levels? (3); It finds application in capacity planning, leads to data formulation of data-backed SLAs, and be a starting point for in-depth performance analysis.
What is time series data?; Chronologically ordered lists of data points
What is the main purpose of monitoring?; Gain near real-time insight into the current state of the system, in the context of its recent performance.
What should complete monitoring cover? (3); Resource availability, software performance, and user behavior.
What is a metric?; A data structure optimized for storage and retrieval of numeric inputs
What are the important properties that describe data input? (2); The origin of the measurement and its attributes such as units and time
What is a monitoring system?; A monitoring system is a set of software components that performs measurements and collects, stores, and interprets the monitored data
What is the main purpose of monitoring?; To gain near real-time insight into the current state of the system, in the context of its recent performance.
The basic currency in the world of information systems is what?; Unit of capacity
The cost of any user activity can be expressed in what ?; The resources it uses
What is an example of a typical computation action in a web service environment?; A request. Every request takes resources: at a minimum it consumes memory and CPU cycles, but frequently it also reads and writes some data to other devices such as disk drives, introducing futher I/O cost
The depletion of any resource required to serve a request leads to what?; Performance bottleneck
Why is meeting load with additional capacity now always desireable?; Because of Denial fo Service attacks, where an attacker's object is to shut down the service by driving the saturation of the scarcest resource it can manipulate.
The solution stack commonly consists of what three parts?; The operating system, middleware, and an application on running on top.
What does a log parser do?; These extract specific information from log entries, such as the status codes and response times of requests from a web server log
What does a log scanner do?; These count occurrences of strings in log files, defined by regular expressions. For instance, to look for both regular errors and critical errors, you can check the number of occurrences of the regex 'ERROR|CRITICAL' in a log file
What are interface readers?; These read and interpret system and device interfaces. Examples include readings of CPU utilization from a Lniux pseudo-filesystem and readings of temperature or humidity from specialized devices
Application-level load measurements can be expressed through what?; Input levels (incoming traffic and number of submitted inputs) 
What does summary statistics describe? (pg. 22); Describes observed input sets by their centers (average or median), the total (sum, n), and the distribution and spread (percentiles and deviations).
What is frequency distribution? (pg. 22); It is a summary of a data set that combines numeric items into groups and presents the groups in a manner that lets you quickly see their relative size.
What are probers?; These run outside the monitored system and send requests to the system to check its response, such as ping requests or HTTP calls to a website to verify availability
What are sniffers?; These monitor network interfaces and analyze traffic statistics such as number of trasmitted packets, broken down by protocol
What is monitoring overhead?; The amount of resources the monitoring agents consume on the monitored entity
What changes with load?; Resource usage patterns
What is the single most important advantage of using timeseries for monitoring?; Their property of accurately illustrating the process of change in a context of historical data.
What do two independent timeseries always share?; The dimension of time
How do summary statistics describe observed input?; By their centers (average or median), the total (sum, n), and the distribution and spread (precentiles and deviations).
What type of statistics can summarize huge data sets in a compact and concise way?; Summary statistics
What is frequency distribution?; A summary of a data set that combines numberic items into groups nad presents the groups in a manner that lets you quickly see their relative size
What does a number on a percentile show?; How many values are smaller than the value of that percentile
Why does the rentention period for resource utilization metrics only need to be 4 weeks?; As the system evolves, gets upgraded, and changes scale, the specific performance information becomes less and less relevant. A little bit of historical context is necessary to make reliable assumptions while troubleshooting, but retaining I/O and CPU data for each individual host beyond this period is of little value
What type of metrics are used for a more universal kind of information that should be retained longer to be analyzed for trend and seasonality?; Usage patterns of the application that demonstrate the overall effectiveness of the service of your system
When you measure demand progression metrics, what should you exclude?; Exclude inconsiderable variables that are present in resource utilization metrics.
Systems with seasonal usage patterns must identify and capture what indicators and why?; Demand indicators so you can plan capacity accurately
What types of metrics are the best choice for usage patterns?; Traffic metrics.
What is required for drawing reliable conclusions from a timeseries plot?; A solid understanding of data presented
What are the three types of (metric) units?; Amount, time delay, amount per time
What are some examples of the time delay type of unit?; Latency, web request response time, time spent by a user
What are spiky timeseries patterns attributed to?; High variability and burstiness of inputs: their sudden change in their values or quantity
What are steady timeseries patterns attributes to? When is this pattern seen?; This appears when data point values have a low variability at a non-zero level. This pattern is seen when measuring availability and underutilized resources.
What are the counter timeseries patterns attributed to?; Occurs with stock metrics, where a discrete value keeps increasing until it gets flushed.
